FIX AND FLIP
GROUND UP CONSTRUCTION
UNDERWRITING GUIDELINES
Version Control:
6.0 Adam Gottfried

Table of Contents
Introduction .............................................................................................................................................................. 3
General Underwriting .............................................................................................................................................. 3
Underwriting Escalations ......................................................................................................................................... 3
Borrower and Sponsor Evaluation .......................................................................................................................... 3
Borrower and Principal Underwriting Due Diligence (KYC) .................................................................................... 4
Consumer Credit Reports ........................................................................................................................................ 5
Collateral Evaluation ............................................................................................................................................... 5
Eligible Real Property Collateral.............................................................................................................................. 5
FNF/Bridge Financing Product Description ............................................................................................................. 6
Ground-Up Construction Product Description ......................................................................................................... 9
Appraisal Requirements ........................................................................................................................................ 12
Ineligible Properties ............................................................................................................................................... 14
2
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6

Introduction
Archwest’s strategic objective is to originate and purchase business-purpose mortgage loans secured by first
mortgage liens against residential properties as herein described, and to underwrite, document and price those
loans to generate assets that produce targeted rates of return without exposing Archwest or its investors to
undue risk.
Loans are sourced directly, by way of mortgage broker relationships, and through correspondent lenders. Loan
products include bridge loans to real estate investors who need short-term execution capital, fix and flip loans to
real estate investors executing rehabilitation strategies, and ground-up construction loans to home builders and
developers.
Credit quality is to be managed in balance with other objectives, and in any event, should never be sacrificed or
mitigated for immediate results. Accordingly, it is incumbent upon the management of Archwest to instill a
credit culture that fosters and actively supports the extension of credit on sound, fundamental lending principles.
General Underwriting
The strengths and weakness of each loan request are carefully assessed to determine the extent to which the
experience, credit, cash flow and financial condition of the Borrower and borrower principals is sufficient for the
Borrower to undertake successfully its business plan and/or renovation plans as well as undertaking the
burdens of operating costs and contractual debt service obligations, and determine the extent to which the
characteristics of the local real estate market are favorable, the as-is value of the specific real estate collateral
property is sufficient at loan origination to secure the initial loan funding, and the pro-forma (typically as-
renovated) value of the real estate collateral will be sufficient at the end of the loan term to provide for payment
in full of the loan by way of a sale or refinance of the property.
All factors that significantly reduce risk should be awarded in the overall credit decision. Just as a thorough
review of collateral quality as well as the strengths of the Borrower and Sponsor should be considered by the
underwriter, risks can be balanced by way of prudent loan structure.
Underwriting Escalations
These guidelines are intended to define an approach and set forth criteria to be followed for the purpose of
ensuring that credit is extended in a manner consistent with risk tolerance parameters adopted by the
organization. Because it is impractical to provide for every circumstance or to pre-judge every nuance that an
underwriter might encounter in the evaluation of a loan request, it stands to reason that there will be loan
requests that present the requirement for senior management to review and approve.
If an underwriter recommends a loan be approved, but the loan does not meet the guidelines as presented in
this document, they will escalate the loan for review by an SVP or Senior Manager who will review the loan
request.
All underwriting escalations will be made available to and be tracked by executive management, who will ensure
that (i) the number of escalations is minimal, (ii) all escalations are offset by compensating factors such as
prudent loan structuring in combination with favorable Borrower and/or collateral characteristics, and (iii)
escalations do not exhibit trends that should be addressed through improved underwriting management and/or
review of the guidelines. Upon approval of the escalation by an SVP or Senior Manager, that loan is deemed to
meet the guidelines as presented in this document.
Borrower and Sponsor Evaluation
The underwriting of each loan will include the following evaluation of every Borrower and Sponsor(s):
• Borrowing entities must be duly organized, in good standing and otherwise legally capable of
undertaking the proposed loan.
• Borrowers and the Sponsor(s) must not be engaged in business activities that, by their nature, could
pose reputation risk to Archwest.
• Financial strength should be consistent with the size and complexity of the financing requested.
• Credit profile and a history of good character should sufficiently demonstrate ability to be counted on to
be a responsible secondary source of repayment.
3
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6

• Real estate investment experience, real estate development, fix and flip management, and property
management experience should be sufficient to capably manage the proposed real estate investment
successfully.
Archwest updated underwriting guidelines and weights of specific variables to reflect the deal tier. Program
guidelines are designed to delineate all general lending parameters. Deal Tier is calculated by taking into
account the following variables weighted on a scale between 1-10
Borrower and Principal Underwriting Due Diligence (KYC)
“Know Your Counterparty”(KYC) on each Borrower and Sponsor is part of the underwriting process. KYC
allows Archwest to evaluate a Borrower before extending credit to the Borrower and forming a relationship. The
goal of the KYC process is to confirm the following:
Formation/Standing/Identity
• If an entity, Archwest performs extensive corporate record searches (Thomson Reuters) applicable
Secretary of State website(s)) to confirm the entity is active, in good standing and authorized to do
business in the appropriate state.
• If an individual, Archwest performs an extensive public record search (Thomson Reuters Clear Report)
using the Borrower’s personal information.
• Archwest reviews the entity’s formation documents to ensure business purpose, ownership,
authorization to borrow funds, and execution authority.
• The underwriter reviews the Borrower’s bank statements, real estate schedules, background checks,
credit reports and other financial documentation to confirm that the Borrower meets the cash flow, net
worth and liquidity requirements given the size of the proposed loan and contemplated construction
improvements.
• If Borrower or Sponsor(s) hold professional licenses, a review is made to determine whether the
licenses are active, in good standing and whether there has been any disciplinary activity.
Background Searches
• A search is conducted for any outstanding items that may impact the Borrower’s ability to perform,
including the following on the borrowing entity, principals/ key management and affiliates including:
o Litigation, judgments and liens
o Criminal arrest and infraction records
o Record of fraud and other financial crimes
o Bankruptcies
o Foreclosures
o OFAC alerts and watch list
o UCC filings
o Death records
o FEIN/SSN verification
4
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6
TTTTT ieieieieie rr
1
r 2
r 3
r 4
T ie r R a n k in g s
M in S7531 c o re

Consumer Credit Reports
A Tri-Merge credit report relating to all Individual Borrowers and Sponsor(s) of Borrowing Entities is reviewed to
determine the extent to which each subject has managed credit responsibility.
Letters of Explanation are obtained for review by the underwriter with respect to adverse credit report
information such as late payments, liens, judgments, foreclosure, bankruptcy, and creditor account closures and
collections.
The Borrower and Sponsor’s real estate investment and/or fix and flip experience is assessed.
Clear report searches on the Borrower, affiliated entities, and Sponsor(s) to find evidence of real estate
transactions undertaken.
Findings from the Clear reports are compared to Schedules of Real Estate Owned that are provided by the
Borrower and Sponsor(s).
Collateral Evaluation
All loans are to be secured by a first mortgage lien against real property that is zoned for and improved in a
manner consistent with the program requirements for each loan. As part of the underwriting process, the
underwriter:
• Confirms the proposed real property collateral meets eligibility guidelines.
• Reviews and analyzes the loan origination appraisal/valuation, multiple listing information and other
available pertinent market data to determine the extent to which the as-is value of the real estate
collateral property is sufficient at loan origination to secure the initial loan funding and the pro-forma
(typically as-renovated) value of the real estate collateral will be sufficient at the end of the loan term to
provide for payment in full of the loan by way of a sale or refinance of the property.
• Reviews title report and (when appropriate with respect to certain multifamily property loans)
environmental site assessment, property survey, and seismic risk assessment.
• Analyzes (when appropriate with respect to certain fix and flip or construction loans) construction budget
as well as related building plans and detailed summary of improvements to be constructed to determine
sufficiency/adequacy to complete project and whether a contingency is necessary.
• Assesses the extent to which the property either benefits or suffers from the access, visibility, physical
condition and market competitiveness of the property location.
• If tenant occupied, compares each lease or rental agreement to the current rent roll and assesses
whether the lease or rental agreement reflect market rents.
Eligible Real Property Collateral
• Zoning is consistent with current use (as a single-family residence and/or a multifamily residential
property).
• Located within one of the largest 225 metropolitan statistical areas of the United States of America
(those with a population of 200,000 or greater) even if not within nation’s largest cities
• Located in a primary, typically in a secondary, and sometimes in a tertiary urban or suburban market
with average or better population density and which exhibit average or better than average recent
population and employment growth.
• Current improvements and use is highest and best use of the subject property.
• Located within reasonable proximity to community amenities such as schools, shopping, recreational
facilities and employment centers.
• Benefits from direct proximity and use of a public street. Properties located on private roads are not
eligible.
See Ineligible Properties Section.
5
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6

FNF/Bridge Financing Product Description
Bridge Financing provides experienced investors with liquidity necessary to acquire, refinance and sometimes
rehabilitate single family residential as well as multifamily residential properties containing 9 or fewer units.
Loans are made for a term of typically 12 -24 months with up to two extensions. Each note is payable interest-
only until maturity against properties that may not stabilized and may require upgrades or significant capital
improvements.
Critical to the underwriting of bridge loans is a well-founded belief that (i) the subject property has the potential
to achieve After Renovated Value and readily provide for a sale or refinance in time to retire the bridge loan at or
before maturity, and (ii) the Borrower has the management capacity, construction experience and requisite
financial resources to achieve the property’s full potential, and (iii) a commercially reasonable refinance at
completion of renovation, or sale at completion of renovation, will be readily available.
Minimum $150,000
Loan Size
Maximum $3,500,000 maximum
Purchase
Delayed Purchase
Loan Purpose Rate and Term Refinance
Cash Out Refinance (See additional guidelines on page 8)
Refinance
Fix and Flip with Lender Financed Rehab
Transaction Purpose Fix and Flip with Borrower Financed Rehab
Bridge Loan
Fix and Flip: 6 – 24 Months with up to two 3-months extension subject to
underwriting and a fee
Loan Term
Bridge: 6- 12 months with up to one 3-month extension subject to
underwriting and a fee
Balloon Payment Yes
Lien Position First Lien Loan (no subordinate financing permitted)
The Loan Amount will be limited to the lesser of:
90% LTAIV
Maximum Loan Amount 93.50% LTC
80% LTARV
Small Multifamily Leverage Reduction: -5%
Max Rehab % 60% of overall Loan Amount
Loan Structure Interest Only, Fixed Rate, Balloon Loan
Individuals
Partnerships
Borrower Corporations
Limited Liability Companies
Trusts (with local counsel approval)
Minimum Experience 1 in the last 36 months
All Tiers: Post-closing verified cash reserves > insurance and real estate
taxes due during the initial term + 6 Months Debt Service + 10% of
Liquidity
rehab/capex (hard costs + soft costs + contingency)
6
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6

Full to Borrower
Unconditional Guaranty Required:
By one or more stakeholder in the Borrower which in aggregate own at
least 51% of the Borrower
Recourse
By each stakeholder with a 20% or greater ownership in the Borrower
Warm body guaranty may be waived to the extent the Borrower has a net
worth in excess of 250% of the total Loan Amount and liquidity in excess
of 100% of total Loan Amount
Maximum Units 9 units
Required on Small Multifamily (5-9 Units)
Equity Pledge Required in Judicial Foreclosure states if a warm-body guarantor is not
obtained
Contingency Minimum Hard Cost and Soft Cost Contingency: 5.0%
Tax and Insurance is not Reserved but is instead paid by Borrower as a
condition of closing, if due within 90-days of the closing date.
Tax and Insurance
Insurance is prepaid for 1 year; provided however, that for refinances,
Archwest will accept an active policy so long as it does not expire within
90 days of closing and any remaining balance is paid at closing.
With respect to loan amounts above $3,500,000 the following will supersede the foregoing:
Loan Amount Between $3,500,000 and $5,000,000
Maximum After-Repair/As-Complete Value as % of Average Home Sale
Maximum ARV
Price*** in Zip Code (9-digit) in past 60-days: 115%
Minimum FICO 720
Minimum Experience At least 5+ (must be on title)
Prior Bankruptcies None
Additional Underwriting Criteria:
• Tier 4 Borrowers may not have a FICO less than 700
• Borrowers and/or Sponsors must not have any bankruptcy filings within the last 10 years
7
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6

Cash-out Refinance
Any Bridge loan in which borrower/sponsor is receiving cash-out may require additional parameters to ensure
strong exit of asset at maturity of loan term. To the extent that the following parameters are not adhered to,
escalation for approval must be obtained from either an SVP of Credit or the COO:
Archwest Capital Cash Out Refinance Matrix
Max %
Borrower Max %
Cash-Out Max Appraisal Allocated
Experience Value
Available $ Amount Type to
Tier Added*
Liquidity
Interior
1 Yes $500,000 50% 75.00%
Valuation
Interior
2 Yes $300,000 30% 50.00%
Valuation
3 No - - -
4 No - - -
*% of how much value add (since the most recent arm's length transaction) can be counted fo r cash out lending.
For additional consideration on cash-out refinances:
• Proceeds are paying off a mortgage that has not yet matured
• Cash out refinance is defined as a loan where cash out to borrower exceeds 2% or $2,000 (whichever is
lower).
• Mid-construction Cash-outs are prohibited
For rate and term refinances, some considerations:
• Proceeds are paying off a mortgage that has not yet matured
• Cash back to borrower at closings cannot exceed 2% or $2,000 (whichever is lower). (If exceeds>
considered a “Cash-out”)
• Items that can be paid off in a rate term refinance must be business expenses only including: mortgage
liens, real estate taxes, insurance, customary closing costs.
8
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6

Ground-Up Construction Product Description
Ground-Up Construction Financing provides experienced real estate developers with liquidity necessary to
acquire or refinance properties and construct single family residential as well as multifamily residential
properties containing 9 or fewer units.
Loans are made for a term of typically 12 -24 months with up to two 3-month extensions available subject to a
fee. Each loan is payable interest-only until maturity and will be secured by a first mortgage lien against real
property for which entitlements to construct a residential property that conforms to these guidelines has been
received.
Critical to the underwriting of a construction loan is a well-founded belief that (i) the subject project is
economically viable, (ii) the Borrower and contractor have the management capacity, construction experience
and requisite financial resources to complete the project, (iii) and a commercially reasonable refinance at
completion of renovation, or sale at completion of renovation, will be readily available.
Minimum $236,250 (minimum initial loan amount $0)
Loan Size
Maximum $5,000,000
Purchase
Delayed Purchase
Loan Purpose
Cash Out Refinance
Rate and Term Refinance
Transaction
Fix and Flip with Lender Financed Rehab
Purpose
Loan Term 12 – 24 Months with up to two 3-month extension subject to underwriting and a fee
Balloon Payment Yes
Lien Position First Lien Loan (no subordinate financing permitted)
The Loan Amount will be limited to the lesser of:
70% LTAIV
Maximum Loan
85% LTC
Amount
67.5% LTARV
Small Multifamily Leverage Reduction (5 to 9 units): -10%
Loan Structure Interest Only, Fixed Rate, Balloon Loan
Individuals
Partnerships
Borrower
Corporations
Limited Liability Companies
3 in the last 36 months; or
Minimum
2 in the last 36 months if the Borrower is a licensed General Contractor, has 2x
Experience
liquidity and at least a 720 FICO
All Tiers: Post-closing verified cash reserves > insurance and real estate taxes due
during the initial term + 6 Months Debt Service based on note amount + 10% of
Liquidity
rehab/capex (hard costs + soft costs + contingency)
9
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6

Required for Small Multifamily equal to 100% of Interest and Carry during Loan
Term
Interest Reserve
May Be Required in All Other Instances
Full to Borrower
Unconditional Guaranty Required:
• By one or more stakeholder in the Borrower which in aggregate own at
least 51% of the Borrower
Recourse
• By each stakeholder with a 20% or greater ownership in the Borrower
Warm body guaranty may be waived to the extent the Borrower has a net worth in
excess of 250% of the total Loan Amount and liquidity in excess of 100% of total
Loan Amount
Maximum Units 9 units
Required on Small Multifamily (5-9 Units)
Equity Pledge
Required in judicial foreclosure states if a warm-body guarantor is not obtained
Completion
Required
Guaranty
Completion Bond Required for projects with construction budgets in excess of $10,000,000
Contingency Minimum Hard Cost and Soft Cost Contingency: 5.0%
Feasibility Required
Tax and Insurance is not Reserved but is instead paid by Borrower as a
condition of closing, if due within 90-days of the closing date.
Tax and Insurance
Insurance is prepaid for 1 year
With respect to loan amounts above $3,500,000 the following will supersede the foregoing:
Loan Size Between $3,500,000 and $5,000,000
Maximum After-Repair/As-Complete Value as % of Average Home Sale
Maximum ARV
Price*** in Zip Code (9-digit) in past 60-days: 110%
Minimum FICO 720
Minimum Experience At least 10+ (must be on title)
Prior Bankruptcies None
With respect to loans with an LTC of more than 82.5% the following will supersede the foregoing:
Maximum Loan Amount $2,000,000
Maximum ARV 65%
Minimum FICO 720
Minimum Experience At least 10+ (must be on title)
Prior Bankruptcies None
Additional Underwriting Criteria:
• Tier 4 Borrowers may not have a FICO less than 700
10
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6

• Borrowers and/or Sponsors must not have any bankruptcy filings within the last 10 years
11
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6

Appraisal Requirements
An independent third-party appraisal will be obtained to support every loan made or purchased as set forth
below:
Loans with a Note Amount greater than or equal to $400,000:
A full appraisal, including an interior inspection of the subject property, in compliance with FIRREA with
a date within one-hundred twenty days of the origination date or 6 months prior to the Closing
Date. Each appraisal is to be signed by an appraiser who is licensed to prepare appraisals in the state
where the Mortgaged Property is located and satisfies applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Loans with a Note Amount less than $400,000:
A property valuation or appraisal suitable to the purpose of determining the quality and status of the
dwelling and is one of the following types: an Appraisal with qualities as described in these guidelines
for loans of $1,000,000 or more, a Broker Price Opinion, a Desktop Valuation with property inspection
from a vetted and approved vendor, or Automated Valuation Model.
Properties for which rehab is contemplated:
• The property valuation or appraisal must be developed with the assumption the proposed new
construction will be completed as of the anticipated date of completion.
• The property valuation or appraisal must be developed with the assumption the proposed new
construction will conform to Borrower’s construction budget as well as related building plans and
detailed summary of the improvements to be constructed.
• The property valuation or appraisal must be developed with the assumption the Borrower will obtain all
requisite work permits and complete the required renovations in a workmanlike manner within no more
than 12 months and will obtain a Permanent Certificate of Occupancy within a reasonable time horizon.
• The property valuation or appraisal must be developed with the assumption that after the completed
construction, the subject property will be in good condition.
Appraisal/Property Valuations will be developed with two distinct values:
• The current (“as is”) value given current market conditions and depicting the property in its current
physical and economic conditions; and
• A pro forma (as renovated “ARV”) value given current market conditions and depicting the property in a
physical condition that assumes completion of contemplated capital improvements/property upgrades
and economic condition that would be consistent with the subject property in the same real estate
market.
Appraisal signed by an appraiser who is licensed and certified to prepare appraisals in the state where the
Mortgaged Property is located that follows FIRREA with a date within 90 days of the origination.
All of the following methods are used to assess proposed real estate collateral.
Broker Price Opinion
BPOs don’t necessarily follow a standard format, which means that they may look somewhat different based on
the individual practices of the broker. A BPO can be done either as a drive-by visit or as a full inspection of a
property’s interior. In either case, the broker or agent will typically drive through the neighborhood to get a better
understanding of the local area. Then, they’ll use their MLS to find similar, comparable properties to create an
accurate estimate of the subject property’s value. Generally, they will use at least three properties that are
currently on the market, as well as three properties that have recently sold, in order to create a reasonable
estimate. This is a version of the sales comparison approach that is often used for traditional
appraisals. Nevertheless, BPOs are not conducted by licensed appraisers and are not completed in accordance
with the uniform standards for professional appraisal practice (“USPAP”).
12
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6

Appraisals
Appraisals are conducted by someone who has satisfactorily completed required course work and training,
obtained a state-issued appraisal license, and performs appraisal in accordance with USPAP. A full appraisal is
a valuation performed by an appraiser who visits the property being appraised, takes photos, measures and
evaluates in person the condition of your home. A desktop appraisal is a valuation performed without a physical
inspection of the property. All research is done as the name suggests, from the appraiser’s desk. In any event,
the valuation is completed by a licensed appraiser in accordance with USPAP.
Hybrid Appraisals
All of the desktop appraisals that we will obtain are commonly referred to as hybrid appraisals, because – as
part of each appraisal – an inspection is conducted by a local real estate professional, so the desktop appraisal
is augmented by a property inspection conducted by a local real estate professional whose accounts and
descriptions are taken into consideration by the appraiser.
Automated Valuation Model
An automated valuation model (“AVM”) is a computer driven mathematical formula that uses basic property
characteristics, local market information, and price trends to arrive at an estimated value or value range. The
most obvious example of AVM technology at work is Zillow. It is important to understand that AVM’s consider
the location, lot size, building size, bedroom/bathroom count and age but assume all properties are in similar
average condition and therefore do not account for differences in property condition and/or cosmetic
upgrades. Accordingly, AVM’s produce reliable estimates of value when the subject property is very similar to
many recently sold properties and the range of sales prices for such properties does not vary widely.
13
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6

Ineligible Properties
1. ADUs
2. Assisted Living Facilities
3. Boarding Houses
4. Built-to-Rent projects that are not subdivided/have individual tax lots and/or not sellable individually
5. Collateral Cross-Collateralized with Properties Financed by Other Lenders
6. Cooperatives
7. Dome
8. Geodesic Homes
9. Houseboats
10. Improved Residential Properties containing 10 or more acres of land
11. Improved Residential Properties containing 5 or more acres of land
12. Individual townhomes or condominium units containing less than 500 SF of GLA with the exception that
a single ADU associated with a conforming SFR may be => 250 SF
13. Leased Land
14. Log Homes
15. Master leased properties and land/leaseholds
16. Metal Buildings
17. Multifamily properties valued at less than $150,000/unit
18. Multifamily properties with greater than 9 units
19. Non-warrantable condominiums
20. Properties located on Indian Reservations
21. Properties subject to government rent control/regulation
22. Properties with Agricultural or Natural Zoning
23. Properties with Section 8 tenants
24. Properties with significant attendant environmental risks (including Hawaii properties located in lava
zones one or two)
25. Properties with underground oil tanks
26. Properties which are used for daily tenancy
27. Residential properties where Day-Care services are provided
28. Retail (including mixed-used properties with ground-floor retail)
29. Rural Properties
30. SFR properties containing fewer than 2 bedrooms or less than 700 SF of GLA
31. SFR properties valued at less than $100,000
32. Seasonal Rentals
33. Single-Room-Occupancy residential properties
34. Student Housing Facilities (rented by the bed)
35. Time shares/special purpose and exotic real estate
36. Undeveloped Land
37. Unreinforced brick buildings
*Mid-construction properties are not ineligible but require Bain Capital approval.
14
Archwest Comprehensive Credit Guidelines v 6

